WI #557: Normative Requirements Refinement - Part 1 (#787)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/chargeperiodend.md

The ChargePeriodEnd column adheres to the following requirements:

* ChargePeriodEnd MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).
* ChargePeriodEnd MUST be of type Date/Time.
* ChargePeriodEnd MUST conform to [Date/Time Format](#date/timeformat) requirements.
* ChargePeriodEnd MUST NOT be null.

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Reviewer: Agree.  If we can't find a better way to word it, then let's default back to the way it was worded before, which would mean:

```suggestion
* ChargePeriodEnd MUST be an exclusive value.
* ChargePeriodEnd MUST match the ending date and time boundary of the effective period of the charge.
```

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Reviewer: Yes, absolutely.  Let's add glossary references and link to them.

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Reviewer: Discussed with Irena.  We should either change the normative requirement term to be `exclusive bound` to match the glossary, or the glossary term should change to be `exclusive ending bound` to match the normative requirement.

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Reviewer: The glossary terms also need to be revised because they assume `beginning` and `ending`, and that's not necessarily applicable.  Also, we may want to re-use these terms for things like Tier Beginning and End, and having the term `Date/Time Format` embedded in the glossary term is not re-usable in that case.

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Author: **Suggestion:**

1 Keep the following Normative Requirement:s

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.
> * ChargePeriodStart MUST be the *inclusive beginning bound* of the effective period of the charge.

2. Change glossary Terms while keeping existing definitions:

> _**Inclusive Beginning Bound**_
> _A Date/Time Format value that is contained within the beginning bound of a time period._

> _**Exclusive Ending Bound**_
> _A Date/Time Format value that is not contained within the ending bound of a time period._

3. Revisit glossary terms and definitions in a future release.

> * ChargePeriodEnd MUST be the *exclusive ending bound* of the effective period of the charge.

Author: 1. **Renamed existing glossary terms** to better align with their descriptions and ensure they are suitable for referencing in the column specifications (these terms are used in the introduction, normative requirements, and description sections):
   - "Inclusive Bound" → "Inclusive Start Bound"  
   - "Exclusive Bound" → "Exclusive End Bound"

2. **Updated and adjusted content** (introduction, normative requirements, and description sections) in the following **columns** to reflect the new terms (improving clarity and consistency):
   - ChargePeriodStart  
   - ChargePeriodEnd  
   - BillingPeriodStart  
   - BillingPeriodEnd

3. **Glossary terms may be further revised** in future releases. Added to the list of the Discussion Topics/TODOs.

---

Closing conversation.

@shawnalpay @flanakin feel free to reopen this conversation if you have any concerns about these changes and believe they need to be resolved before merging this PR into the working_draft.
